Using your model, are you able to
quantify like what percentage of the
internet at the moment is AI slop? It's
about 40%
>> Wow.
How do you base on what you just Where
do you How do you get that number? So a
lot of the internet is just like SEO
written articles and like much of that
Yeah, it's articles written for for
search basically so that um your website
comes up more often search because it's
targeting certain keywords and a lot of
that industry has switched over to using
AI because then instead of having to pay
writers you could turn out articles for
pennies on the dollar, but I think that
kind of results in a lot of the internet
being AI written. It's a little bit it
is also kind of platform dependent. So
this is just
It's about 40% from like a internet page
perspective. About a year and a half ago
we looked at Medium and found that over
50% of newly written Medium articles
were AI generated. Uh which was a crazy
high number.
>> What about Reddit? Reddit about
It was 7% a year ago I believe, a little
over 10% today.
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal. And I'm Tracy Alloway. So
Tracy, you know, you ever come across
some writing you can't articulate
exactly why but you're like I'm pretty
sure AI wrote this. Does this happen to
you much? So full disclosure I haven't
really thought about it that much. Yeah,
because the thing is if I I probably
should think about it more but there's a
lot of bad writing out there and I've
become sort of inert to it and I also
think that I I don't know. Trying to
figure out whether or not something was
generated by AI nowadays, if you
actually dedicate a lot of your own time
to doing that, that is a huge like
mental burden to be attempting.
Especially you and I are in the
journalism industry. How many of the
pitches do you think that we get from
PRs right now are being generated by AI?
Imagine if you're reading each one of
those and trying to figure it out on a
daily basis. You know what I suppose I
think about it the most is someone will
respond to a tweet. Yeah. And I'll be
like, well, if this is a real person,
then maybe this person deserves some
engagement and ask a question or I want
to respond. But if it's a bot
>> is a bot, then obviously I don't. And
that's where I'm like, you know what? I
don't want to figure it out. I would
like to know the answer. You know, I
have a controversial view about AI
writing, by the way, which is that it's
pretty good. I mean, like by and large,
when and I said this, I think maybe in a
recent episode, when you consider the
fact that I don't know, the majority of
the population like doesn't know where
to put a comma within a sentence. Well,
this is my point, right?
>> is pretty good. I mean, yeah, one thing
I'll say about AI is it never gets get
the placement of a comma wrong. It's on
some level it's perfect. Did you do
that, I think it was in the New York
Times, the the test?
>> of hated that. Okay, why? Well, because
I'll tell you why. First of all, there
were only five examples, which is not
very many. Two, it asked the reader
which do you prefer, but I think most
>> different subjects as well, which is
>> Yeah, and also I think most people
probably treated that as can you guess
which one is the human cuz everyone
wants to say they prefer the human. I
didn't think it was like
a great test. Nonetheless, look, it is I
mean, not only is it often
indistinguishable, not often is it often
fine writing. Sometimes AI can come up
with a really remarkable turn of phrase.
>> Yeah. But I still by and large don't
like it. You read like a thing,
especially like long texts that say AI
and it's like even if you can't
articulate it, it's like this feels AI.
It has a certain sickliness, sweetness
to it that is often annoying and it's
cloying.
>> I notice about it is it doesn't do style
very well, right? So, if you ask it to
write something in the style of a
writer, if you choose anything other
than something really obvious like
Shakespeare, Yeah. it really it suffers.
But the text that it actually outputs is
pretty clear,
>> Yeah, totally clear.
>> basic understanding, Totally. It's
probably better than a lot of what's on
the internet. You know, the the real
people who are going to have to worry
about this are like teachers, obviously,
universities, and you know, Lawyers.
>> student lawyers, and maybe law it's
fine. But there sometimes it's like,
okay, did someone write this or not? And
there has to be it'd be nice if like we
could know the answer. Well, the other
thing that's starting to happen is have
you seen any books out there that
actually come with a disclosure or
disclaimer that say this book has been
written only by humans, no AI used at
all. I I saw that for the first time on
a book that we actually read for an Odd
Lots episode. I don't think it's come
out yet, but that kind of threw me.
Yeah, no, it's uh it's more and more.
Anyway,
as we enter a world in which the vast
majority, if not already, of words
written are written by AI, it's going to
be interesting this question of whether
we know. Anyway,
there's this company called Pangram
Labs, and they have a little thing and
you can pay for it, but also a free
service where you can drop like a text
in and it'll say what are the the odds
that it's written by human or AI.
And I'm pretty impressed by it. I like
did some samples of my own writing and
then AI outputs, it got them all right.
But then I did some like further, like I
tried to stump it to see if like So,
what I did was I took a piece of AI
writing
>> Mhm.
and then I hand it had it translated
into Chinese. Okay. And then I had it
translate that into high Chinese, so
it's like, okay, imagine this has been
written by a more formal register.
>> Mhm. And then I had that translated into
Hebrew. Okay.
>> I had that translated into English. So,
the original thing through this series
of AI telephone, through various
translations, and then I put that output
back into Pangram. I got that right. It
said it was AI. So, even after a series
of sort of transformations designed to
obfuscate the original style of the
piece
>> Huh.
to see if, you know, eventually it would
emerge into something else. So, I was
pretty impressed. It seems to work. And,
you know, I think that's interesting for
a couple of which is maybe there is
something that you can just tell, but
two, it sort of worries me because, you
know, you there have been articles and
they'll say like this is written by AI
and I think one of my big fears would be
that I write something
I like to use the M dash. I have always
been an M dash fan. I love M dashes.
That's how people talk. I'm sorry.
>> And then what if it says you wrote this
by AI and I'm like I didn't and then
here's this black box that is suddenly
like judge, jury, and executioner for my
career potentially. You wrote this via
AI, the lab says so, you are now done.
Like that worries me. So, I think this
raises a lot of very interesting
questions about these model detection
thing. And I want to learn more about
how it works.
>> Well, there's also a lot of
philosophical questions about just what
we value in writing as well because no
one's going to yell at you for using
spell check or something like that,
right? Like it's kind of crazy to think
that reputational risk is going to hinge
on whether or not you might have used a
platform, a chat platform to like do
some basic copy editing. Totally. Well,
very happy to say we do in fact have the
perfect guest. We're going to be
speaking with Max Spiro. He is the
founder and CEO of Pangram Labs and he
can answer all of our questions. So,
Max, thank you so much for coming on Off
Lots. Thanks for having me.
Uh how do you know it's right? So, you
someone puts in a piece of text and
we'll get into the method in a second,
but someone puts in a piece of text and
it says human, AI. What makes you
believe that you have a very good track
record on this question? So, when we
started Pangram, we started by doing
this thing we call a human baseline,
which is how well can we um like as a
human predict whether something's AI or
not. That's the first step at like
learning is this problem tractable? Is
it how hard or easy is it? And I found
like uh me personally I was able to get
about 90% accuracy. And so, we figured
um an AI model should be able to do much
better than that.
So, I have a bunch of methodology
questions, which we can get into, but
just before we get into any of that, why
is AI slop bad, in your opinion? Why
does it need to be tracked and
identified? I think the problem is it's
just so easy to generate. And so, like,
there's it's very difficult to know,
like, what is the like intent behind it.
Basically, like, right now, I think
we're actually pretty lucky living We
live in a world where the
signal-to-noise ratio on the internet
and in our information channels is
pretty high. We have pretty high
signal-to-noise, but any bad actor can
come in and just flood our information
channels with AI slop that looks
legitimate. It looks like somebody put
actual effort and thought into it. But,
really,
um it was just like a single prompt,
which could have also been automated.
This is something that I think about a
lot, which is that there was a point in
time, and maybe it still is the point in
time, where if you read something that
was grammatically correct, where the
punctuation was strong, where the
spelling was strong, there was reason to
think that the person who wrote it was a
person of like
certain seriousness. Mhm. And a certain
intelligence behind it. And I think that
the issue that you're identifying is
that that link is now being severed, so
that we can't use these heuristics
anymore, such as the strict quality of
the prose, to know, in fact, whether
this was published by someone who was
like a serious actor, intelligent, or
not, and
>> And now you have people inserting typos
into their copy.
>> I was just To prove that they are
intelligent.
>> But, wait, sorry, just to
go back to my original question. So, you
mentioned, "Okay, you're able to get it
90% right." But, now it's just been used
a lot more, and you have people paying
for your software, presumably, teachers
and journalists, etc.
Given all of that, getting from 90% to
100, I mean, if you could make one out
of 10 is clearly un- unacceptable error
rate for a piece of commercial software
that could call someone an AI creator.
So, you have to do a lot better than
90%. Talk to us about like what you've
seen so far in your data since releasing
it as commercial software that makes you
believe the software is doing a a
correct job of allocating between the
two categories.
>> So, so we've built out a really
comprehensive evals. Okay. Um and so our
evaluations, there's two kinds of
errors. There's a false positive, which
is when something is written by human
written by a human and then we say that
it's written by an AI. Okay. And there's
a false negative, which is if it was AI
written and we don't catch it. And so we
track our numbers for both of these.
Um and for human writing, we're actually
pretty fortunate. We have like millions
and millions of samples, so we can get
like uh a very we can get a false
positive number that we have a very high
degree of confidence in. And our number
right now is about 1 in 10,000. Okay.
So, if we scan uh 10,000 documents, um
up on average, one will come back as
uh AI when it was actually human. And
what about the other direction? False
negative, I would say around 99%
accuracy. So, so like about around 1%
false negative rate. I think this
depends a little bit more on like how
adversarial the prompting is, how much
they're trying to Like what I did when I
tried to send it through multiple
filtrations to obfuscate the original
output, that would be an example of
adversarial prompting. Exactly. But in
in like the general case where we're
just looking at straight outputs from
AI, it's above 99%.
>> Okay. Okay, so what what is your model
looking for exactly when it's evaluating
a text? Because as we mentioned in the
intro, you know, syntax and grammar
tends to be pretty good on um
AI-generated copy.
The style is sometimes more of an
identifier, I I would argue to your
point, Joe. Like sometimes it reads very
saccharine and kind of overly earnest in
some ways. So, what are you What exactly
are you focusing on here? What are the
tells? Yeah, so the style and um the
word choices are definitely part of it,
but I think what a lot of people don't
realize is they're actually making a lot
of decisions when they write a piece of
text. So, every There's, you know,
dozens or hundreds of ways to phrase
every single phrase, and over the course
of 50 or 100 or 200 words, you're making
thousands of decisions, actually. Um and
so, what we're doing is we're learning
the patterns and how like these frontier
models make these decisions, and if
the vast majority of these decisions
line up with how the frontier models are
doing it, then it's vanishingly unlikely
that this was written by a human. You
would have to just happen to make the
same exact decisions that the LLM does
hundreds of times.
>> Interesting. Okay.
>> But, this is a really important point.
So, everyone at this point has some feel
for like, oh, the M dash tell, right?
But, my understanding is it's not like
you don't go in and like hard code, if
you see a bunch of M dashes, this is the
thing. These decisions, in many cases, I
imagine either you nor the model itself
can articulate in English what the
decisions are. All you know is that the
decision pattern exists. Is this
correct? This is correct.
>> Okay, can you explain so, therefore,
what does it mean that your model has
learned these decision patterns? So, so,
what we're doing on a large on the very
broad scale is we're training a deep
learning model. So, it's a pretty big
black box, but it has um
the base model of a language model, and
then instead of predicting the next
token, it's predicting whether the text
is AI or not. Okay. Um and what it does
Well, how we train it is we train on
tens of millions of examples. So, it
sees millions and millions of human
examples, and for each human example, we
also show it an AI example. So, for
example, uh let's say one of these is a
five-star review
uh for Denny's that's 78 words long.
Then, we'll ask an AI to write a
five-star review about Denny's that's 78
words long in the style of the first
one. And obviously, these two will be
different. And so, our model is able to
learn through contrast what is the
difference between these two.
>> thing, sorry, just to be clear here, is
that you and you and I might not be able
to articulate the difference. There will
be some difference in maybe the sentence
length, there will be some difference in
word choice, there will be some
difference in
punctuation, syntax, whatever. But, you
and I wouldn't obviously spot it.
However, after millions of examples of
these side-by-sides, the model learns
what the difference is.
>> Exactly. I think the best that a human
can do is look for some of these like
really obvious tells like uh
uh chat GPT loves the like "It's not
just X, it's Y" framing. Uh it uh
earlier models really liked some
specific words like tapestry and
intrepid and delve. Yeah, delve.
Tapestry, yeah. Um but but yeah, I think
the um by training Pangram, we're able
to go much deeper than this and look
deeper than the high-level signs at the
like document-level signs.
So, one thing this kind of reminds me
of, and I'm thinking how to phrase this,
but it reminds me of you know those
exercises people used to do where you
would take a bunch of different faces
and meld them all together and come up
with like one face that was supposedly
attractive. So, like
to what extent is this basically a
distributional
detector in the sense that you're
looking for like certain paths that you
think AI would choose? Could you get a
false positive just from someone who's
choosing like the average of the average
of the average in a way to state a
particular sentence? Mhm.
Um maybe. I Yeah, I mean, I think that's
There's a reason we have our false
positive rate is 1 in 10,000 and not
zero. It's because, you know, sometimes
we look at the false positive and it's
like, "Oh, it reads exactly like an
AI-generated review or essay." Except
that it was written in 2019. So, it's
probably a human who just happened to um
find the exact um
like mode collapsed type of way that
like models write.
>> Yeah. I think it's a good way to think
about uh
the distribution of writing or writing
as a distribution where like, you know,
there's the space of all human writing
and then
AI writing is really just like a small
point within this space. It's very, no
matter how much you prompt it, it
doesn't go that far from uh
where it was trained to be.
>> Yeah. Okay. What's the black box? So, I
built I built a little model myself. I
built this thing that detects you can
upload text and it says whether it's
more resembling of the written word or
the uh spoken word. Oh, I saw that. That
was cool.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I used BERT, which
is like uh one of these things uh open
source one from Google. What is the core
model that you trained on or is it
something that or did you build it
yourself? Like talk to us about that.
Our our very first model was actually
built on BERT. Um but future models we
needed to up our capacity.
Higher end.
>> How
running into capacity limits with our
model. Um it was capping out at a
certain
false positive false positive false
negative rate. It wasn't learning the
deeper signals. So, we had to 10x and
then 100x the parameter count so that it
can learn like really deeply
what like how these frontier models
write. Mhm. Have you noticed any
interesting differences between how the
models write? Can you And actually, is
is your model trained to identify
different models as well as whether or
not this is just broadly AI-generated?
Um so,
we don't specifically train it on
different models. We don't say like,
"Hey, this one is Claude 3 and this one
is um chat or GPT-5. Uh, but what we've
done we we've done some interpretability
work to look at um, basically the output
embeddings of the model and we're we
find that it actually learns um, which
which model the text came from. So, you
could see like little clusters like this
is the Claude cluster and like all of
the Claudes Yeah. cluster around here
and then these are like the the Deep
Seek and Qwen and then this is like
ChatGPT and and they all kind of like
cluster into different spaces in
embedding space. So, clearly the model
is able to learn what the difference is
between these frontier models. Well,
actually since you mentioned Qwen, I'm
very interested. Is there anything like
distinct in terms of how Qwen generates
text versus platforms that have been
developed in the US?
Um,
I I think Qwen is unique because it's
trained on a lot more Chinese and
multilingual tokens than other models.
Um, so, you know, I've heard from
Chinese friends that it's it's much
better
uh, at like being conversationally
fluent in Chinese. Mhm. Um, beyond that
I don't know that I can tell. I It would
be hard for me to look at a text and say
like I know that's Qwen, but I think
somebody who's more familiar with it
might be able to. Huh. Let's talk about
the um, sort of some of the
philosophical or societal implications
of this work. Have you had anyone whose
text has been
um, judged to be AI written by Penjamin
and they're like, I swear to God this
isn't your and they like really insist.
And what do you think about this
situation? What do you do or talk to us
about that?
I've had a couple times this happened.
I think one time like it
There have been times where I I
genuinely believe that you know, this is
just a false positive. We scan We've
scanned hundreds of millions of
documents. So, like at
at a certain scale like this will
happen. But I also get people who
all the time they're just like, AI
detectors don't work. You know, they're
they're like the it's like a total fraud
and and then whatever they're putting
out on LinkedIn is just 100% AI
generated and they're just like mad that
they're getting called out. And then you
look back like farther into their past
and their history, like everything
they're putting out is AI generated um
until about like 2023. Like like for
everyone, if you look historically,
there's a lot of like slop accounts that
are putting out total slop and and you
can tell either they like weren't
posting as much before um and if you
scan back in time, then you see that
they were writing human text at some
point.
>> So there's a number of accounts out
there that basically right around the
beginning of 2023, where if you scan the
entire corpus of their work, it very
clearly shows a switch right around
early 2023. Yeah, it really like depends
on the account. I think one thing we saw
that was interesting was there is a a
writer for The Guardian that was
covering the Winter Olympics and
somebody was like, "Hey, you're this
article is like total AI slop." Uh
granted through Pangram, it was AI. Uh
The Guardian was like, "No, of course
our writers don't use AI." And then we
So we scanned this single writer's like
history um
and we found that they really did start
picking up AI like mid to late 2024 and
were using it more and more in their
articles.
I mean
just to play devil's advocate for a
second, does does intent matter when it
comes to identifying AI slop in the
sense that, okay, I get you can have a
bad actor who's maybe trying to
influence how people feel about a
particular topic and maybe they've
created a bunch of bots on Twitter/X
and they're using AI to just flood the
zone with a bunch of AI slop supporting
their particular viewpoints.
On the other hand, if you're a
journalist and your business is to
write, you know, like basic
understandable copy about a news topic.
Just to be clear, I'm not advocating
this at all, but that intent is very
different to I'm going to try to
influence something by just you know
sheer volume.
Yeah, I mean definitely these are like
two
one is a lot more severe than the other.
But I think at the same time if you're a
journalist and you're using AI to
basically shirk your work and like not
do your work. I think that's also a
problem and I think it's a reputational
risk to the outlet because people can
tell and people are going to call you
out. You know they there's a lot of
people who don't want to read AI slop
kind of regardless of where it's from.
Yeah, this is definitely true. Has it
changed like um
are you ever going to run out of human
material to change on right? Like you
could be pretty confident that if you
find some piece of text that was
published on the internet prior to 2023
but certainly prior to like 2019 or
something like that. You could be
extremely sure that this is human
generated. Do you worry that in the
future that like it's going to be harder
to even establish the provenance of your
training data?
Yeah, it's definitely a concern for us.
>> Talk to us about how you're thinking
about that. So we have a near infinite
data reservoir of pre-2023 data. There's
just like more than enough for us to
train on for a long long time.
But part of the problem is we also want
to train on modern text. We want to
There's all this talk about like if
somebody's writing about LLMs or about
AI, we don't want to incorrectly flag
that as AI because our training data has
no sense of this topic. So I think we're
looking at different ways to do this but
most of them are just like figuring out
like who is a trusted actor. Who who do
we know is putting out human written
content and we could use our model for
that like to some degree. So we have
known actors, we know they're putting
out human written content and then we
could use their data as well. Slightly
random question but using your model,
are you able to quantify like what
percentage of the internet at the moment
is AI slop? Um, it's about 40%.
>> Wow.
How do you based on what you just Where
did you How did you get that number? So,
a lot of the internet is just like SEO
written articles and like much of that
Yeah, it's articles written for for
search basically so that um your website
comes up more often search because it's
targeting certain keywords. And a lot of
that industry has switched over to using
AI because then instead of having to pay
writers, you could turn out articles for
pennies on the dollar.
Um, but I think
yeah, that kind of results in a lot of
the internet being AI written. It's also
kind of platform dependent. It's about
40% from like a uh
like internet page Mhm. um perspective.
About a year and a half ago we looked at
Medium and found that over 50% of newly
written Medium articles were AI
generated. Uh, which was a crazy high
number.
>> What about Reddit? Reddit, uh
about It was 7% a year ago, I believe. A
little over 10% today. Wait, actually
this reminds me. So, I
I I'm on Reddit a lot and I really enjoy
it nowadays as a platform, but I do
worry about how much of it is being
generated by AI. And the thing I don't
necessarily understand is what are the
economic incentives to actually write a
bunch of AI generated posts on Reddit
and get upvoted. Like why does that
system or motivation even exist? So,
there are startups. I'm not going to
name names cuz I don't want to promote
them, but they will sell a promise to
companies that we're going to get you
organic mentions on Reddit. We're going
to run our AI bots that uh seem organic
uh and they're just going to you know,
naturally recommend your product or you
know, just mention your product in the
comments or in a post. And so, I've seen
evidence of this. We We can find these
like
They're basically like bot farms that
are mostly engaging seemingly
organically just like doing a short
reply and then sometimes they're doing
this brand mention. And so that's why
these posts are very valuable. That's
really interesting.
>> I have to also imagine it's valuable
because all of the models train on
Reddit, right?
>> Yeah.
>> And if you want your product's name to
appear in model output, it's like, "What
is the best uh, you know, nose hair uh,
trimmer or whatever?" And there's a
bunch of bots that on Reddit talked
about this nose hair trimmer and then
that's probably more likely to show up
in a ChatGPT request, right? Yeah, yeah,
it's been weirdly gamed. You know, you
used to just Google best nose hair
trimmer and now there's like a thousand
Well, the Reddit search results like
show up first nowadays cuz that's where
people are looking.
>> Yeah, and then people started searching
best nose trimmer Reddit Yeah.
>> to to get the Reddit comments on it and
now it's like it it people have realized
that that's what people are searching
for, so you need to populate Reddit with
your uh,
advertisements. Hm. I'm uh, I'm on the
men's Are you looking for a nose hair
trimmer? The Panasonic ear and nose hair
trimmer is the number one choice on
Men's Health. Pros, easy to hold.
Anyway, it's not
>> Yeah, it's all these affiliate links
that have just destroyed the internet. I
know, it's uh, it's really too bad. Um,
but whatever. Talk to us more about the
whole pipeline. So I would I'm very
fascinated by this idea. It's like,
"Okay, you see this review for Denny's,
come you have the AI model try to
replicate as best as it could, there
will be these subtle differences." Talk
to us though about like the whole
pipeline. What are the other tests that
you're using to get the true
you know, cuz what I imagine you're
trying to do is get the most similar
data sets with an almost imperceptible
difference to really stress test
>> Absolutely, yeah. So talk to us really
about this whole pipeline. Yeah, so what
we're really trying to do here is we're
>> As a model maker myself
No, no, sorry, keep going. Yeah, as an
AI expert
>> Yeah, yeah, as an AI expert, I need to
hear some tips on the field.
Uh, yeah, so what we're really looking
for is uh examples that are as close to
the boundary between human and AI as
possible so that our model learns
better. Something that's very obviously
AI is um you know, our model's not
learning as much. Same thing for
something that's obviously human.
Uh, and so step one is, you know,
creating this data set with synthetic
mirrors of human examples. And then we
train a model. And then step two is
something called active learning. So we
then take this model and use it to scan
a much larger corpus of data and look
for errors, false positives, false
negatives. And then we pull those back
into our training set and are able to
train a much better model because it's
seen these errors which and these errors
we believe are just much closer to the
the boundary between human and AI.
Sorry, just to be clear, the first pass
is like, okay, you have known
human writing and known AI writing. You
train a model and then the next pass is
once again unknown human and known AI
writing. So you already know the answer
of each of these and therefore you can
come up with a list of what you got
wrong and then that gets fed back into
the first version.
>> Exactly. And so that makes Once we
retrain, then the model gets much, much
better.
Uh, and then we could do this as many
times as we want to kind of just have a
self-improving model that gets better
with every training run.
Um, I can also tell you go a little bit
more into how we deal with AI edits
because I think that's increasingly
important problem. It's like I I think
most writing will be AI-assisted in the
future. I think it's already in Google
Docs and it's in my Google keyboard.
Um Grammarly arguably has been doing
this for a while. Exactly. Yeah,
Grammarly uses LLMs on the back end and
we don't want to just say like all
writing is AI now. We want to be able to
differentiate between AI-assisted and
AI-generated. So what we do is we also
have different prompts. So rather than
saying so for our like human review
Danny's rather than saying
generate a review like this, we could
say
help improve this. Make it more formal.
Make it more um
like clean up the grammar. And so we
have like a long list of AI editing
prompts. And then we're able to look at
basically the cosine difference the
distance between the original human text
and The distance in the
multi-dimensional
Exactly. So how much did AI change this
text? Interesting.
>> And then we're able to train our model
to say like we're just going to like put
a point on this distance and say like
that this is moderate AI assistance.
This is light AI assistance and this is
heavy AI assistance. Interesting. Um I'm
going to do something I don't think I've
ever done before which is ask a founder
about their their corporate mission. But
you know, you you've set up this company
and when you think about what you're
trying to do here, is it just basic AI
detection in the sense that there might
be you know, a few groups of people like
teachers that find this very valuable or
is the mission something broader where
you're actually trying to improve the
internet and what people see on it? I
believe the technology of being able to
detect AI generated content is immensely
valuable and it's valuable not just for
teachers, but for basically everybody in
every profession. Lawyers, publishers,
just
a individual who consumes content on the
internet. I think it's valuable for all
these people. But ultimately yeah, our
like high-level goal is to help mitigate
some of these
negative effects of growing AI content.
But for instance, just using the product
review
example. If is the vision that like a
Yelp for instance would want to use this
technology to make sure that its system
isn't being gamed or is the vision like
if I am a particularly diligent consumer
who has a lot of time on my hands and
I'm looking to go out to a restaurant, I
can run all these individual restaurant
reviews through Pangram and then like
actually figure out if it's real hype or
not.
So, I think right now it's a lot of the
former. We work with platforms. One of
our biggest customers is Quora and they
run a bunch of content through Pangram,
but we have
a lot of different uh platforms that use
Pangram to help moderate and um find AI
bad actors and uh
get them off their platform. But, I also
think yeah, the individual consumer case
has been growing a lot and we're really
interested in pushing here.
The free version of pangram.com
like you get a handful of tests a day or
something like that. If someone had an
unlimited number of Pangram responses
and maybe had an access to the Pangram
API at infinite scale
could they theoretically learn a prompt
that would they would then be able to
put into an AI to generate human style
writing? I actually had a friend do
that. He he put his Claude code on a
loop. I I gave him some API credits and
then his Claude code just basically
worked overnight writing a prompt trying
to get it to output something that's
human written or that seems that there
from Pangram is human written.
It got there, but the text was pretty
like uh
incoherent.
So, so like yeah, it was producing more
or less long gibberish. Uh it was like
grammatically incorrect. It uh
a lot of the words just didn't really
make sense. Cuz this was my first
thought. Like when I saw it, I was like
that would be like a fun experiment to
see if you could take all of the output,
find the difference and just keep
iterating on the prompt you would have
to tell AI in order to eventually get an
output that looked to pangram like it
was human generated.
>> Yeah, I think there's a way to do it to
if you also had like an LM judge on
coherency and use like pangram and the
coherency judge both to score your text.
I think it's definitely possible and I'm
excited for someone to try to do it cuz
we could make our model a lot better and
more robust if this existed. Joe, I want
to know what your personal like token
budget is nowadays that you're even like
contemplating some of this stuff.
>> like I I have the Claude Max plan, you
know?
And I don't work like when I'm at work,
I don't work on any of my vibe coding
projects. You know like when we were
kids, I don't know if you remember like
if you didn't eat all your food, like
someone would say, "Oh, there's like
starving kids in the world. You should
be I'm like
starving vibe coders that need the
tokens. It's like oh, you didn't like I
have this 4-hour token window and I'm
almost never maxing it out and I'm just
thinking it's like there are kids on the
other side of the world that wish they
had your tokens and you're you're not
using all of your tokens for the window.
How dare you? I feel a little guilty
when I don't out max out my Claude Max
token program.
>> I also have Claude Max and yeah, most of
most days I'm not doing much coding at
all. I'm not maxing it out and then some
days I'm going way over budget.
>> about that though? It's like oh, like
yeah, yeah. So, can I ask you like you
know, writing is kind of interesting but
like what are the prospects of this
being able to work on say
and you must get this lot image and
video generation. Is it at all
theoretically similar? Is there a reason
to think that it will be replicable or
is this just a different beast of a
problem? I think the approach is
definitely doable. I think some of the
economics change especially if we look
at video and the cost of generating
video today. Okay. We can't generate
video at the same scale that we can
generate text and so we might need a
kind of different approach but I also
believe that if we're able to solve this
for image plus maybe like audio
that that could be enough to just solve
it for video as well. Huh, zero shot.
Could you ever envision, I don't know,
launching some sort of like
certification program for video? Because
this seems to be
My dad's a boomer, spends a lot of time
on Facebook. Like this seems to be what
society needs, right? Like a video that
comes with a little thing that says this
is not AI generated and someone has
actually like rubber-stamped that. So
there's an organization called C2PA and
I think they're doing pretty good work
on content provenance. Basically they
are working with phone makers and
hardware makers to
basically embed like hardware signatures
to prove that image and video
are like were truly taken from the
hardware.
>> Like watermarks basically.
>> Yeah, exactly. So so rather than marking
the AI outputs, we're instead
embedding like a proof of authenticity
in the
the like thing that's real that's
captured in real life.
All right, so big picture
where's the internet going? You know,
you mentioned 40% of the internet is
already AI generated, but maybe that's
not the end of the world. Like, you
know, if it's just a bunch of SEO pages
that I never read, I don't know,
whatever. But like what what what's the
Give us some thoughts high level about
like what the trajectory of the internet
regardless of the uptake of Pangram and
other AI detection models.
I'm a little bit worried about the the
state of the internet. I'm going to be
honest.
>> Tell us.
>> I think like right now there's still
like so much of it is built around trust
and norms in a way that like we're we're
not really It's we're not really well
equipped to suddenly deal with an
onslaught of bots at a completely
different scale than we've dealt with
before. Mhm. Um I So there's maybe like
a good case and a bad case. I would say
like the bad case is the internet goes
the way of dead internet theory. Just
like every
every space that's open and accessible
is just flooded by bots and then the
only place people are able to
communicate authentically is in like
very walled garden like closed
uh servers like like Discord servers for
example where you know everybody's
identity is known and you know you don't
have bots in here. So that's maybe the
like bad scenario. Can I tell you an
insane thought that I've had?
>> Go on. Did
you ever going to kick out of it? Just
just the one. Have you heard of like I
forget what they call like this idea of
like with bad actors it's called like
heaven mode or heaven banning. Have you
heard of that?
So there's this thought that one way you
could deal with the bad actors on the
internet
is
suddenly they they're they you're
they're on a version of say Twitter in
which they're only bots and everyone
always agrees with them on everything
and it drives them crazy and stuff like
that and they would never know it
because they're like oh this guy
everyone and then it's sort of like
slowly like yeah they just this is like
a way you could punish people Oh that's
right. where they will never get any
fighting. Yeah heaven banning putting it
basically jail. You're talking a bunch
of bots.
>> That's right. That would be jail where
you're heaven banned. But I thought and
again this is you know like I built this
little AI model myself and I like showed
it to my friends they're like oh that's
really cool job. I'm really impressed.
Like I'm really impressed by like that
you're able to do this with and I was
like are people being honest with me?
Have I been heaven banned cuz I just
like like you can be honest with me if
it sucks and I'm and I sort of have this
fear the biggest humble brag ever. Like
oh I did this thing and everyone thought
it was great. saying like people are
like I think people I'm worried that
like people are being nice to me cuz
like oh cool yeah that's really
impressive you like did that and I have
this like deep anxiety that like people
aren't giving it to me straight about
it. I'm not I know that sounds like a
humble brag but it's really not. That's
why you can never get like too
successful like Kanye West is surrounded
by a bunch of yes men. He never gets
anything done. Oh it's this is his first
try at doing something with live coding.
I'm like deeply anxious like no you can
just tell me if it sucks that's fine.
That's my worry. I I don't worry about
this. If I tweet that I'm eating a steak
I will get like a hundred people
criticizing me for something.
>> correctly.
>> Yeah. Yeah. There's the other thing,
which is that the two things you are
never allowed to tweet about
meat preparation and enjoying life.
Because if you ever enjoy life and if
you ever enjoy and if you ever prepare
meat, people will flip out at you on the
internet. Those are the two things that
you are not allowed to do online. Very
true. Um this sort of related question,
but just going back to the methodology.
If if you're focused on this sort of
like path-dependent idea. I'm kind of
envisioning it as like a giant decision
tree, right?
>> Um
is there a possibility that as the
models get better and better and we know
that they're already injecting like some
degree of randomness into their output.
Although I know there's going to be a
pedant out there who like messages me
and says like, "Well, you know,
computers can't do like true
randomness." But
setting that aside, setting that aside,
like we know that they're adjusting at
they're becoming more sophisticated at
an incredible rate. We know that they're
trying to adjust and inject some
randomness in order to avoid exactly
this kind of detection. Do you worry
about their own adaptation at all? I
have noticed that the models as they get
more capable, I believe that like their
output distribution gets more complex.
It's harder to learn with a simple
model, which is why we've been
increasing our model size to capture a
greater complexity higher complexity
function that can capture the LLM
outputs. So, I think we may have to
continue to make our models better.
We're we're going to have to work to
keep up with it. Yeah.
>> We can't just rest on our laurels. What
are burstiness and perplexity? Yeah.
This is a metric that's used by some AI
detectors, but not PenGram.
>> Okay. And so, I can explain a bit about
how it works. So, perplexity is
basically a measure of
>> not perplexity.ai, the website. This is
a technical term. Okay, good.
>> This is a metric. This is a measure of
how confusing a piece of text is to a
language model. Oh. So, basically, for
example, with every token, we can
calculate some perplexity, which is
basically like how expected this is. So,
for example, like if it's I went home to
my pet, and then the next token is
chinchilla, Uh-huh. that'd be a much
higher perplexity token Oh. than my pet
dog. So, LLM outputs tend to be low
perplexity. They're not going to produce
outputs that are surprising to
themselves. This is a decent way to get
an AI detector that's around 90 to 95%
accurate.
Um but it has some problems. The main
one is that you can't
improve upon it. Basically, it has false
positives. Uh text written by non-native
English speakers often is low perplexity
just because when you're learning
>> take as many risks.
>> Exactly. Yeah. Interesting. That's why a
lot of the early AI detectors had a
bunch of false positives with ESL
speakers. It's because their text was
low perplexity. So, I think like this is
a very cool metric, but it is not the
path for Pangram. Instead, we went the
deep learning approach so we can do
better than perplexity.
>> Is that just the opposite side of the
coin?
Yeah, burstiness is basically
Actually, yeah, I I don't know if I can
define it.
>> Okay, fine. Yeah, I'm good. Burstiness
just sounds like one of those like sort
of I guess manosphere terms, doesn't it?
Like
he has like he's been looksmaxing with
high burstiness
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah, looksmaxing, yeah.
That's great.
>> Yeah, I I think it might just be like a
measure of like sentence length and how
Yeah, the ups and downs of the text.
>> I have one more question, which is if we
assume that the world is collectively
concerned about AI slop and wants to do
something about it, what would be like
the single biggest change
to the system, either in terms of like
the economics of of internet or
regulation or technology like what
you're developing that would actually
help reduce slop. Yeah, I think the
biggest one is norms. So, there've been
a couple great blog posts written about
how it is rude to send other people
undisclosed AI outputs. And
I I think I like completely agree here.
I think, you know, if somebody like
asked the question on the internet and
then somebody else like goes and puts
into chat GPT and then like paste the
answer. It's kind of rude. Like like I
was going here to ask the opinions of my
friends or or you know, my followers not
just like not chat GPT. I could have
done that myself. And so I think like
building this norm is something that,
you know, it's very new technology. So,
we need to do it quickly, but I think
this would help a lot for society. Well,
then actually this gets to a question
that I have then, which is
it sound I feel as though the major
internet platforms are actually moving
the exact opposite direction. I mean,
I'm stunned. I'm maybe I accidentally
clicked on something at some point, but
the frequency with which I get an email
and then I open it up to respond in
Gmail and there's that ghost text there
that
I can do you just want Gemini to respond
to this? I've never done that. I also
consider I think that would be extremely
rude. I've never responded to if
any email with
AI AI response. But they're basically
telling you to do that. They're doing
the exact opposite. They're blowing up
these norms. And so I'm curious from
your perspective, you mentioned work
with Quora, but from your impression do
the major internet platforms think this
is a problem worth solving or from their
considerate is like, you know what?
>> Yeah, it feels like more content the
better. There's mixed incentives there
for them, right?
>> for the big companies? It's funny cuz
like Google seems to be playing both
sides. So, like on one hand they had
that
advertisement which people kind of blew
up about where it's like, oh children
can now send their heroes
notes on like how much they respect them
by using AI instead of like writing the
note themselves. And like, this is
wrong. This is like societally bad. But
at the same time, they're working very
hard to deal with the AI slop on the
internet in search results to make sure
people get served real content and not
AI slop content. So, I think I mean, I I
think obviously there's a lot of
incentives that play up around like
product people who are incentivized to
push AI because that is the um
the corporate mandate. But yeah, I I
think overall, even like in my sphere of
a bunch of people who are AI
researchers, generally consensus is that
like
AI is a powerful tool, but like slop is
bad.
This reminds me my parents used to make
me um do these like handmade greeting
cards for every you know, for Christmas,
for like all of relatives and stuff. And
it was supposed to be a demonstration of
my commitment to communicating to
family. No, no, it traumatized me
forever and I hate greeting cards as a
result of them of doing this, just
spending hours manufacturing these
things. But then secondly, the funniest
thing was once we got e-cards, my
parents immediately switched to using
e-cards and just and now
this is also the funniest thing. My dad
uses e-card He figured out that the
e-card system can tell him whether or
not you opened it. So, he just uses it
as like day-to-day communication now.
That's so funny. Just send an email to
your daughter and it would be e-card and
It's like, I noticed you haven't opened
up my e-card for International Hot Dog
Day. Please uh let me know what's going
on.
>> handwriting as a kid and my mother made
me write all of these handwritten notes
to thank people for the gifts I got for
my bar mitzvah. Yeah. I hated it. But
you know what? I have deep connections
with all of those people that have
lasted over the years. And that
miserable one week where I just wrote
and I got, you know, hand cramp. I think
it paid off, so.
>> All right. Well, imagine doing that for
like 16 years basically um,
an never-ending stream. Max Spiers,
thank you so much for coming on Odd
Lots. That was a lot of fun. I'm
fascinated by this conversation. Thanks
so much for having me. Yeah, really
exciting to talk about this and I think
slop is a growing problem, so hopefully
>> Awesome. We're able to deal with it. 40%
of the internet. I can't tell if I'm
surprised by that or not. And what's it
going to be next year at this time?
Oh, man, I don't know. It'll be like
hard to say.
>> over a majority though, for sure. Um,
yeah, almost certainly. Crazy. All
right, thanks for coming on Odd Lots.
Thanks.
Trish, I love that conversation. I just
think it's like a really fun puzzle,
right?
>> Yeah, no, totally.
>> It's very
like it seems like a fun question to
solve and I'm fascinated by this idea of
how like with both humans and AI,
there's going to be this gap,
inevitable, between what we know and
what we can articulate. Cuz you and I
both, setting aside AI versus text,
there are things that we both know. Mhm.
>> This is a good episode of a podcast.
Yeah. This is a credible sounding guest
and this isn't.
Um, the gap between that and then being
able to like explain why, it's like,
well, you just sort of know it, right?
You just sort of have this feeling.
>> There's an intuition, yeah.
>> And that intuition is built up from
numerous examples,
which is the same way, in a sense, that
like the AI is trained. It's like these
things that you only know from patterns
and you can see them without fully being
able to like articulate exactly what's
going on. Well, the other question I
would have on that is
is it even going to matter in the long
run, if you think about like so much of
the internet is already built on bots
and the sort of like false attention
economy? Like
if if our entire like world view becomes
shaped by AI-driven
drivel, Yeah.
does it matter if like the economics of
the internet are still attached to
individual bot accounts and things like
that? I don't I don't I'm in
if I'm explaining this, but
>> No, no, I think it makes a lot of sense.
And I do think like it is important.
Like we're going to have to change the
entire way we think. And Max said at the
beginning, which is and I've thought
about this, which is that it used to be
that if you came across a piece of
writing and the punctuation was
excellent and the spelling was excellent
and it was like cogent sounding. You're
like, okay, this has been written by a
smart person. I will take the content
seriously, right? And now there's this
complete severance of sort of like craft
and output because you could and I you
do this. Like ask Claude to write an
argument in favor of the most absurd
proposition imaginable. Ask Claude to
write an argument for me that um
you know, write an argument for me that
the reason why Reagan wanted to do tax
cuts in the early 1980s related to these
reports of UFO sightings in the 1970s.
And it will write something
>> Yeah. that not only is it grammatically
correct, it'll actually like strain to
come up with the best version of this
argument before. And again, if prior to
that having read it like, oh, maybe the
person like this person took this
argument seriously, but now this
argument is just created ex nihilo,
we're going to have to really like
change our heuristics about this stuff.
>> We've created an unlimited stream of
basically cranks with really good
grammar.
>> Yeah. That's right. That's right cuz it
used to be we knew the cranks cuz they
had bad grammar or they would email us
and like half the words would be in
yellow and the other half would be
underlined.
>> Green ink was the classic example.
>> These were the tools that we used to
just like, oh, this person's a crank.
They like, you know, half the words are
in all caps and stuff like that. Those
don't work anymore. All right. Um on
that note, shall we leave it there?
Let's leave it there. Okay. This has
been another episode of the All Thoughts
podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe
Weisenthal. You can follow me at The
Stalwart. Follow our guest Max Spiro,
he's at Max_Spiro_.
Follow our producers Carmen Rodriguez at
Carmen Arman, Dash O Bennett at Dash
Bot, and Kel Brooks at Kel Brooks. And
for more All Thoughts content, you can
check out our daily human-generated
newsletter over at
bloomberg.com/allthoughts.
And you can chat about all of these
topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/allthoughts.
And if you enjoyed this video, then
please leave a comment or like or better
yet, subscribe. Thanks for watching.